---
layout: post
title: Kempos
tags:
    - notes
excerpt: These are patterns of movement used to teach and learn some aspect of Kempo. They are called kempos. They are often referenced by their pattern, but sometimes they are named. We've just begun assigning numbers in the hope that the numbers will make it easier for us instructors to teach new students.
---

## Contents
{:.no_toc}

- TOC
{:toc}

## The Basic Nine

These are the first kempos we teach to new students. They are selected to represent a variety of basic strikes, blocks and takedowns. The Eight-Point Blocking System is a prerequisite for learning these kempos, as well halfmoon steps and some basic kicks and hand strikes.

1. Punch-Punch-Palm: LT HM forward w/ LT inward palm block. RT thrust punch. LT thrust punch. RT palm heal strike to the face.
1. Kick-Palm: RT HM back w/ #2 block. RT front ball kick and land forward. RT palm heal strike to the face.
1. Inside L-step w/ RT hammer fist block. RT back punch to the face. RT reverse hammer to groin. RT back punch to face. RT side thrust kick to stomach.
1. Outside L-step w/ LT hammer block. Spin CW on RT foot. RT back elbow to back. Spin CW on LT foot (to face your opponent's back). LT palm heal strike to back (betweent the shoulderblades is usually a good target).
1. Five Punches: RT HM forward w/ #2 block. RT thrust punch to groin, stomach and head. LT cross and RT front punches to head.
1. LT HM forward w/ #1 block. RT reverse hammer to ribs. LT palm to face. RT instep roundhouse to stomach.
1. LT HM forward w/ LT inward palm block. RT and LT thrust punches to stomach/ribs. RT tiger mouth to throat. RT leg hawk.
1. RT cresent kick to strike the attacker's RT hand. RT thrust kick to stomach. LT Spinning back kick to stomach.
1. LT HM forward w/ LT inward palm block. RT roundhouse elbow. LT roundhouse elbow. RT ridgehand strike to groin.

## Abbreviations

- LT: left
- RT: right
- HM: halfmoon
- CW: clockwise
- CCW: counterclockwise

